
       COMPARISON OF NEW VERSUS OLD WS467 WALL SWITCH MODULES
                by Charles W. Sullivan
                    11 August 2007
                Revised 10 September 2007

A major redesign by X-10 of the WS467 Wall Switch Module hardware and
firmware occurred around the beginning of 2007.  Unfortunately however
the model designation was not changed from WS467, which will undoubt-
edly result in a lot of user confusion.  Even worse, some characteristics
of the redesign make it backwards incompatible with the original design
in many software packages.

This note will attempt to describe the major characteristics of the
new design as compared with the original design. This information was
obtained by trial and error measurements on actual units, as X-10 has
published nothing about the new design.  The units tested here all
have date code sticker 07E21, however there is no assurance that units
with later dates codes will be the new design modules.

The characteristics of the original design WS467 (and rebranded units
sold under the RCA, IBM, and Radio Shack labels) remained basically
unchanged over the years. The module responds to X10 signals
All_Units_Off, All_Lights_On, On, Off, Dim, Bright, and All_Lights_Off.

If an original-design module is in the Off state, a received Dim
signal will first bring it to full brightness before dimming.  The
only way to avoid this is never to turn the module Off but instead
to dim it to minimum brightness (which is usually visibly indistin-
guishable from darkness).  Then it can be brightened as desired from
that point.

The new design shares many characteristics with the discontinued
LM14A 2-way Lamp Module although it remains a 1-way module, i.e., with
no status-reporting capability.  However it now supports the Extended
Code Preset function which allows it to be directly set to any arbi-
trary brightness level 0-63. In common with the LM14A, minimum
brightness (at Extended Code Preset level 1) is nowhere near darkness,
but about at the level of 8% of line voltage.  However this is not a
critical limitation now that the module supports the Extended Code
Preset function.  It is fully Off when turned Off (at Extended Code
Preset level 0) by either an Off command or by an Extended Code Preset
command.  The new design also supports the Extended Code All_Units_On
and All_Units_Off functions.  Curiously, and unlike the LM14A or the
original-design WS467, the redesigned WS467 no longer supports the
All_Lights_Off function.

Like the LM14A, the new design also supports Extended Code group
commands (at least those which are applicable to 1-way modules).
Modules can be configured as members of groups, then all modules which
are members of a group will simultaneously respond to a single "group
execute" command.

The new design has a "resume" feature similar to the LM14A, i.e., the
ability of returning from Off to the previously set brightness level,
which like the LM14A is called into play when the module receives the
On or All_Lights_On signal, or if it is manually turned on with a tap
on the push-button.  (This behavior differs from the redesigned LM465
plug-in Lamp Module which resumes the previous level when it receives
a Dim or Bright signal).

Most curious however is that the redesigned WS467 cannot be brightened
from the Off state by a Bright (or Dim) signal; it has to first be 
turned On.  It thus differs from all other dimmer modules from X-10
and those from most other manufacturers.  This one difference renders
the redesigned WS467 backwards incompatible with the original design
in many software packages, including some features of X-10's flagship
product ActiveHome Pro (for Microsoft Windows).

Manual operation of the redesigned WS467 with the push button now
has the capability of setting the brightness level.  When Off, the 
first press of the button turns the module On to the previous level.
Once On, the next press and hold of the button gradually dims the
module.  Additional presses and holds alternate between brightening
and dimming the module.  In either mode, a quick tap of the button
turns the module Off.

More details about the characteristics of the new design LM465 will
undoubtedly reveal themselves with time.

